# Introduction-of-Smart-Pointers-in-CPP-and-It-s-Types


So what happens is it’ll have a pointer ‘p’ and this will be pointing to an object of type rectangle which will have length and breadth. Once the function ends this ‘p’ is deleted because p is a local variable to the function which will end but a new rectangle that is allocated inside heap that will not be deallocated. And it will return it will come back as its infinite loop again it will call, so again new p is created then again a new object is created for rectangle same length and breadth. So then what about the previous object, it’ll not be deleted, again extra new object, it’ll also not deleted. So every time it will create an object but not it’s deleting so this is causing leakage of memory from the heap memory. Like for memory for length and breadth is unused though it’s allocated but not in use. So slowly the entire heap memory may become unused because it’s infinite. So at one stage because of a lack of heap memory, the program will crash. So at the last of the fun() we should use ‘delete p’ if we do not mention this, this will cause a very severe problem. so because of the laziness or carelessness of the programmer this type of problem may arise. So to help the programmer C++ 11 takes responsibility and introduces smart pointers.



# Introduction of Smart Pointers
The problem with heap memory is that when you don’t need it you must deallocate itself. So mostly the programmers are too lazy in writing the code for deallocation of objects and that causes severe problem like memory leak which will cause the program to crash. So the languages like Java, C#, .Net Framework they provide a garbage collection mechanism to deallocate the object which is not in use. So in C++ 11, it introduces smart pointers that automatically manage memory and they will deallocate the object when they are not in use when the pointer is going out of scope automatically it’ll deallocate the memory.
